---
order: 900 
description: Best Practices for Applying Artists, Non-Selection Policy 
---

Art Blocks is a highly selective platform, and submitting a project for consideration is a multi-step process.  With careful preparation and a keen focus on specific criteria, however, you can reduce the potential intensity of the process and significantly enhance the likelihood of a successful application. Remember, the process demands an investment of your time and effort that matches the high standard of projects Art Blocks looks to release. Even if your project is not selected, a strong application can provide inroads to other opportunities in our community such as the opportunity to connect with the Art Blocks Engine, an invitation to participate in artist-specific programming, or being identified as a potential future candidate for project release and mentorship. Numerous generative artists have gotten their start with an Art Blocks release, and we maintain a steadfast commitment to discovering and promoting a diverse range of unique talents.

**First, let’s review the basics:**

1. **Understand the Process:** Familiarize yourself with the application process, which can be found at  [artblocks.io/apply](http://artblocks.io/apply). This portal gives you access to the Art Blocks staging environment, where you can upload your algorithm onto the test network. Please use this [guide](https://docs.artblocks.io/creator-docs/creator-onboarding/readme/project-form-fields-guide/#project-form-fields-guide.) to all form fields and buttons within testnet and mainnet project environments.
2. **Project Completion:** Your project needs to be completely finished and uploaded to [artist-staging.artblocks.io](http://artist-staging.artblocks.io/) before it is screened for release consideration.. Once your algorithm has been uploaded, you will need to mint test outputs, each staging shell should have between 40 to 60 test outputs for review.
3. **Complete your Staging Shell:** After you have minted your test outputs, make sure to include a project description, an artist bio, interactivity instructions (if applicable), and feature traits that align with the conceptual and visual logic of the project.
4. **Notify Art Blocks:** Once you have completed steps 1-3 and feel your project is ready for review, send an email to **apply@artblocks.io** indicating your readiness for consideration for release. Upon receipt of your email, a member of the Art Team will confirm your submission and provide an estimated timeline for the review process.
5. **Screening Process:** Once we’ve verified that your project code, the test outputs, project description, artist bio, and features list as complete, your project will go through two screenings: first by an internal Art Team committee and, second,by the Art Blocks Curation Board.

Articulating your artistic vision effectively is key to capturing the interest and appreciation of the Art Blocks community. Here you will find effective strategies for successful applications:

1. **Understanding the Evaluation Criteria**: Familiarize yourself with the Art Blocks scoring system, which ranges from 0 to 4.
    - Score 0: The project is not visually/sonically well composed.
    - Score 1: The project is visually/sonically well composed.
    - Score 2: The project demonstrates strong aesthetic choices, cohesive design and concepts, functional and appropriate programming techniques, and clear understanding of generative and computational aesthetics and concepts.
    - Score 3: The project shows careful consideration of aesthetic details, such as color palette and compositional rhythm. The visuals are unique, relevant, and supportive of the project concept. Code is functional, detailed, and well-executed, integrating computation and aesthetics effectively. The project uses common generative styles to create unique aesthetics & compositional forms.
    - Score 4: The work exhibits emotional, intellectual, and conceptual qualities through aesthetics, and is successful from an aesthetic point of view. It showcases an authentic and original point of view, clear communication of intention and concept, and a compelling description. Code employs inventive techniques and supports the underlying concept. The project covers new ground and brings something new into the world.
2. **Work on Your Project Description**: Your project description is your opportunity to speak on behalf of your work. It is where you can express your intentions as an artist and help viewers get a foothold in what they are looking at. It's also a place for you to offer some bigger claims about your work. Consider the new ground you have been exploring—technical, conceptual, or aesthetic. Be sure to clarify your ideas about your project's purpose, significance, and distinctiveness. This can be challenging, but providing your own perspective can help frame the interpretation of your work for the internal selection committee, the Art Blocks Curation Board, and, eventually, the audience of collectors, artist peers, critics, and curators.
3. **Anticipate and Address Questions**: Think about potential questions that the screening committees will consider about your project. For instance, if you were asked about the new ground you're trying to break with your work, what would your provisional answer be? How does it relate to, or build on, other artistic work you have done in the past? How does it relate to the work of other artists working in creative coding and blockchain technology? How does this project advance the medium of generative art? These are tough questions, but they are the curation board's criteria in reviewing projects, and anticipating line of thinking can help you provide a richer description. Don’t be afraid to keep it simple and direct.
4. **Maximize Your Space**: Use your project description space to speak directly to the viewer. This can be a simple, clear bit of text that elaborates on work's distinctiveness, the new territories it explores, and how it contributes to or diverges from the broader context of generative art and computational art history. It needn’t be more than 750 words. It is also recommended that you set up a space on a satellite site, which can be linked in the project description. This satellite site will allow additional space for you to outline your project’s history and evolution. It is a great place to showcase the iteration of your ideas, source materials, and examples of different types of outputs.
5. **Focus on your own contribution**: Ensure your project doesn't merely follow coding templates but rather showcases what you have done with code. Ideally, the visual outputs and underlying concepts align and strengthen each other.
6. **Code Meets Platform Requirements**: Please read the [Guidelines & Constraints](https://docs.artblocks.io/creator-docs/creator-onboarding/readme/#guidelines-and-constraints) section of the creator documentation to ensure your project uses the approved code libraries and the outputs are dimensionless and deterministic.
7. **Technical excellence and innovation**: Your project should integrate computation and aesthetics effectively, with well-designed and executed details. Innovative, never-before-seen coding techniques will score highly in review.
8. **Aesthetic excellence**: Your project description and or satellite site should closely outline aesthetic details such as color palette and compositional types, and variability. Each output should be distinctive but also clearly connected to other outputs within the project, and their relationship to each other should be an expression of the conceptual frame of the project as a whole
9. **Distinctive Position**: Your project should exhibit a distinctive and personal point of view. It should be designed and produced to communicate your intention and concept, while also leaving room for the viewer to bring their interpretation of your work.

Remember, applying to release a project on Art Blocks is a multi-step process that requires creativity, technical skill, and a deep understanding of the platform's requirements and expectations. Articulating your artistic vision effectively is key to capturing the interest and appreciation of the Art Blocks community. Thank you so much for bringing you project to Art Blocks for consideration. We really look forward to seeing what you have been working on!

## Non-Selection Policy 
At Art Blocks, we highly value the creative contributions of artists and creators who submit their work for consideration. However, due to the volume of submissions we receive, and limited release slots available, we do not provide specific feedback for rejected projects.

**Reasons for Non-selection:**
    
    While the specific reasons for non-selection may vary depending on the nature of the submissions and the objectives of the screening committee, some common reasons  may include:
    
    1. Lack of alignment with artistic vision: Projects that do not align with Art Blocks’s artistic vision or fail to exhibit demonstrable innovation, originality, or artistic excellence.
    2. Lack of distinctiveness : Projects that do not offer a distinct perspective, either conceptually or visually
    3. Limited visual impact: Projects that fail to create a strong visual or conceptual impact may not meet our standards for inclusion.
    4. Insufficient development: Projects that appear to be in early stages of development or require additional iteration and refinement to reach their full potential may not be selected.
    5. Repetitiveness or lack of variety: Projects that lack variation, both within the collection itself and in comparison to other works in the same genre or style, may not be selected.
    6. Failure to meet technical or quality standards: Projects that do not meet our technical or quality standards, such as issues with resolution agosticism, integration of randomness or clarity of concept or execution may not be selected.
Please note that these reasons are not exhaustive, and our screening committees carefully assess each submission based on a range of factors. While we understand that receiving specific feedback can be helpful, we are unable to provide feedback for individual cases of non-selection
    
